It the previous lesson we saw how we can create a cookie where we could do something like this and we
can create a cookie so we can call another cookie where we can create a cookie test we can give it a
value of it.
So we'll just go hello for a value.
And then lastly we can set it for the number of days that we want the cookie to exist.
And now we can console directory that document object and we can take a look at what's been set within
our cookies and now we see that we've actually got three cookies in there.
So the next step is to retrieve those cookies.
So we saw that we can set the cookies and we also need a way to get those cookies out of our Document
object.
So we need a name that we're going to be searching for for the cookie.
So just to name and then down here.
Let's set a variable.
So we'll just see my cookie and this is going to be the cookie that we're going to search for.
So that's our cookie.
And let's set up a name so we can pull back any one of them.
Let's do test.
So let's do that one that we've just pulled in.
So for my cookie I want to see the value of test.
So the number of things that we need to do here.
And the first one is that going to the cookie we need to set up a function for that and variable so
we need to find the pattern that we're looking for.
So basically this is the name and concatenated with the equal sign so that we have actually this value
that was the one that we're looking for and what we're going to do is we're going to loop through all
the values of cookies.
We're going to split this into an array and we're going to then take those values loop through them
and return back the value of the cookie.
So do you remember earlier within the array when we were looking at the strings string methods that
we saw way to actually split a string into an array.
So that's what we're going to use this time and we're going to list out all of our cookies.
So just give it a variable of C..
And what I wanted to do is I want to split.
So this is the document cookie object.
And we're going to use the Split method and we need to split it with the semi-colon.
So we see that over here they've got the semi-colons in there so we need to split it within the semi-colons.
So once we split it what I'll do is our console log out.
What are split hairs.
And basically this is going to create an array under C and it's going to have all of these values here.
Let's refresh and we see that we've got all of those values are available there.
So we've got the first one the second one and the third one.
And also notice the space here in the beginning.
So next thing that we need to do is we need to create our loops so let's set up our loop.
So the same thing that we've done many times before where we're looping through while X is less than
the length of the array which is C this time we need to increment x.
So of course we can eventually break out of that loop so we're looping through the values and let's
set up a value for the cookie.
So we know that the cookie is going to be c x.
So this is the value that we're going to be looking at.
So maybe we can even pull this into the console and let's put that.
So this is the value.
This is the current value as we continue through the loop.
So basically we're able to loop through all of the values and next we need to check to see if the cookie
is going to be found.
And notice that we also have a space in front here so we need to remove those spaces before we can continue.
So let's set up a variable in order to hold our value and then we're going to remove that space using
the substring.
So let's use this and we're going to set up a Taren every operator in order to pull this information
back and we're going to take the value of c x and we're going to check to see if character out.
So we're going to check to see the first character at zero.
So basically the first character here and we're going to check to see if it's blank.
And if it is I'm going to put t in place there.
So basically what we need to do is we need to clear out that those spaces and we need to rewrite.
So basically we want to have t if there is no spaces then we're fine.
If this isn't if this is false then we're just using the initial value of c X. And if this is true then
we need to clear out and remove that first space.
So.
So there are a number of ways to do this.
And this time I'll show you doing it the territory operator so we haven't used that one in a while.
So that basically gives us two different values.
And if we return back false then we take the second one and if we return back true then we take the
first one and for the first one we need to take the substring value of it.
So we're going to use the string methods and use substring and what substring will do is we can specify
how many characters we want to remove out of it.
So take note that first character and first of all let's see if this actually works we'll refresh it.
And we were able to get rid of that first whitespace.
So there's a number of other ways to do this as well to remove that whitespace.
So what I want you to do is go back to some of the previous methods that we've used and try to recreate
it and create remove all of that first part of the whitespace.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you some more solutions coming up so paused the video.
Open up your editor and create a string with the space in front of it or an array with the number of
variables if you don't have the cookies set.
Or if you do have the cookies set you can go and use the cookies create a few cookies and then loop
through those and remove out that first part of the whitespace.
So try that out and I'll show you some more solutions coming up.
So let me show you some other ways to trim white space.
So set up t again and this time we're going to use the trim method.
So this is a builtin method a string method and string method and all we need to do is trim so we can
do that.
And let's try this one out and refresh it.
So our whitespace is gone.
So this might be the simplest one.
And one more that I want to throw in there just as we are coming off the regular expressions.
Let's do one as a regular expression and get some time to practice regular expressions.
So I know that we need to set that value and we can do a replace.
And then here is where the regular expression is going to come.
So this one might seem a little bit complex but basically it will remove out any whitespace that's in
front or after any of the characters.
So basically it's going to remove the whitespace from the beginning and from the end.
So let's go back and refreshed and there again we see that we are able to remove the whitespace.
So you could do any number of these.
These are all going to work.
They're all going to give you the ability to remove the whitespace so that you can continue to loop
through the cookie values.
So that was our removing of the whitespace and the next thing that we want to do is we want to return
back our cookie value if we've found it.
And this time I've got another challenge for you.
And earlier we did see how we can get the index Buzan index of we can see if a value was sitting within
the array.
So we need to do the same thing and loop through the array or check in the array and see if the value
of p is there.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution for that.
So the solution for this was that.
Now we've got t is going to hold these values as we're looping through them.
So we don't have to do anything else we can just use t.
And we're going to use the method index of.
So basically this gives us the ability to check to see if a value exists.
And we know that if it exists they're going to return back a value of zero.
So the value that we're looking for is P.E. and we're going to check to see if we do get a value of
zero being returned back.
And if we do then we know that we can con. We can log something out.
So let's first log some information and then next I'll show you what else we can do with this.
So let's go back and refresh and we see that we are able to find that cookie.
So it's being returned we are logging it out.
We were able to identify it and pull it out of our document cookie.
So using a number of the different methods that we had seen earlier.
So now we need to actually extract that value out.
So instead of consoling alog let's do a return and we're going to return back the value of t and we're
going to substring that so scup substring the value of t.
And we're going to get the length of it.
So the length of our original P
and the length of so are going to return those back into the value that we're requesting.
So let's try this out.
And now let's see what the value of my cookie is and we see that we're returning back.
Hello.
So basically we're able to pull back this information because we originally sent over a value there.
And what we're doing is we're pulling out the length of the value that we're looking for.
So for looking for test we're pulling that back out and then we're returning it back as a substring.
We know that within the console log there we were able to see the cookie value and we were able to simply
return that.
And then lastly So as we finish through our loop.
So I'm just going to clean this up a bit.
So as we've finished through our loop we need to have a return in case the cookie isn't found.
So we're just going to return it back blank.
So let's go ahead and try this.
So let's see if there's a cookie and let's call it X..
So we see that that's coming back undefined or if we try cookie ID we see that we get a value of 5.
So we do have our way to return back the values from the cookies themselves.
And one more function that I did want to create and that is to actually delete the cookies so to function
and the cookie.
And what this one will do is this is going to delete out the cookie value from the cookie object.
And what we do.
All we have to do is we have to just take that same value that we had in creating the cookie so we know
that we can pass through the name and instead of a value we're just going to leave it blank.
And we're also going to do instead of days we're going to do a negative one.
So that will ensure that we actually delete and remove out that cookie.
So let's go ahead and refreshed the page.
And now let's see if we can read a cookie we can delete the cookies so let's do our cookie first and
this time let's grab ID.
So we see we've got a value of ID.
And now let's try to delete the cookies.
So this is our new function that we created to delete the cookie.
So we get undefined and let's go back to read the cookie and it's blank so that cookie doesn't exist
anymore it's completely gone.
And this is how you can work with cookies and set them up to run in the back and hold information store
information that the users provided in their browser.
So the next time they're accessing your web site you can read the cookie.
If it's already there in place.